### Learning Objectives
- Understand multiple foundational papers of convolutional neural networks
- Analyze the dimensionality reduction of a volume in a very deep network
- Understand and Implement a Residual network
- Build a deep neural network using Keras
- Implement a skip-connection in your network
- Clone a repository from github and use transfer learning

### Why look at case studies?
### Classic Networks
In this video, you'll learn about some of the classic neural network architecture starting with LeNet-5, and then AlexNet, and then VGGNet. Let's take a look. Here is the LeNet-5 architecture. You start off with an image which say, 32 by 32 by 1. And the goal of LeNet-5 was to recognize handwritten digits, so maybe an image of a digits like that. And LeNet-5 was trained on grayscale images, which is why it's 32 by 32 by 1. This neural network architecture is actually quite similar to the last example you saw last week. In the first step, you use a set of six, 5 by 5 filters with a stride of one because you use six filters you end up with a 20 by 20 by 6 over there. And with a stride of one and no padding, the image dimensions reduces from 32 by 32 down to 28 by 28. Then the LeNet neural network applies pooling. And back then when this paper was written, people use average pooling much more. If you're building a modern variant, you probably use max pooling instead. But in this example, you average pool and with a filter width two and a stride of two, you wind up reducing the dimensions, the height and width by a factor of two, so we now end up with a 14 by 14 by 6 volume. I guess the height and width of these volumes aren't entirely drawn to scale. Now technically, if I were drawing these volumes to scale, the height and width would be stronger by a factor of two. Next, you apply another convolutional layer. This time you use a set of 16 filters, the 5 by 5, so you end up with 16 channels to the next volume. And back when this paper was written in 1998, people didn't really use padding or you always using valid convolutions, which is why every time you apply convolutional layer, they heightened with strengths. So that's why, here, you go from 14 to 14 down to 10 by 10. Then another pooling layer, so that reduces the height and width by a factor of two, then you end up with 5 by 5 over here. And if you multiply all these numbers 5 by 5 by 16, this multiplies up to 400. That's 25 times 16 is 400. And the next layer is then a fully connected layer that fully connects each of these 400 nodes with every one of 120 neurons, so there's a fully connected layer. And sometimes, that would draw out exclusively a layer with 400 nodes, I'm skipping that here. There's a fully connected layer and then another a fully connected layer. And then the final step is it uses these essentially 84 features and uses it with one final output. I guess you could draw one more node here to make a prediction for ŷ. And ŷ took on 10 possible values corresponding to recognising each of the digits from 0 to 9. A modern version of this neural network, we'll use a softmax layer with a 10 way classification output. Although back then, LeNet-5 actually use a different classifier at the output layer, one that's useless today. So this neural network was small by modern standards, had about 60,000 parameters. And today, you often see neural networks with anywhere from 10 million to 100 million parameters, and it's not unusual to see networks that are literally about a thousand times bigger than this network. But one thing you do see is that as you go deeper in a network, so as you go from left to right, the height and width tend to go down. So you went from 32 by 32, to 28 to 14, to 10 to 5, whereas the number of channels does increase. It goes from 1 to 6 to 16 as you go deeper into the layers of the network. One other pattern you see in this neural network that's still often repeated today is that you might have some one or more conu layers followed by pooling layer, and then one or sometimes more than one conu layer followed by a pooling layer, and then some fully connected layers and then the outputs. So this type of arrangement of layers is quite common. Now finally, this is maybe only for those of you that want to try reading the paper. There are a couple other things that were different. The rest of this slide, I'm going to make a few more advanced comments, only for those of you that want to try to read this classic paper. And so, everything I'm going to write in red, you can safely skip on the slide, and there's maybe an interesting historical footnote that is okay if you don't follow fully. So it turns out that if you read the original paper, back then, people used sigmoid and tanh nonlinearities, and people weren't using value nonlinearities back then. So if you look at the paper, you see sigmoid and tanh referred to. And there are also some funny ways about this network was wired that is funny by modern standards. So for example, you've seen how if you have a nh by nw by nc network with nc channels then you use f by f by nc dimensional filter, where everything looks at every one of these channels. But back then, computers were much slower. And so to save on computation as well as some parameters, the original LeNet-5 had some crazy complicated way where different filters would look at different channels of the input block. And so the paper talks about those details, but the more modern implementation wouldn't have that type of complexity these days. And then one last thing that was done back then I guess but isn't really done right now is that the original LeNet-5 had a non-linearity after pooling, and I think it actually uses sigmoid non-linearity after the pooling layer. So if you do read this paper, and this is one of the harder ones to read than the ones we'll go over in the next few videos, the next one might be an easy one to start with. Most of the ideas on the slide I just tried in sections two and three of the paper, and later sections of the paper talked about some other ideas. It talked about something called the graph transformer network, which isn't widely used today. So if you do try to read this paper, I recommend focusing really on section two which talks about this architecture, and maybe take a quick look at section three which has a bunch of experiments and results, which is pretty interesting. The second example of a neural network I want to show you is AlexNet, named after Alex Krizhevsky, who was the first author of the paper describing this work. The other author's were Ilya Sutskever and Geoffrey Hinton. So, AlexNet input starts with 227 by 227 by 3 images. And if you read the paper, the paper refers to 224 by 224 by 3 images. But if you look at the numbers, I think that the numbers make sense only of actually 227 by 227. And then the first layer applies a set of 96 11 by 11 filters with a stride of four. And because it uses a large stride of four, the dimensions shrinks to 55 by 55. So roughly, going down by a factor of 4 because of a large stride. And then it applies max pooling with a 3 by 3 filter. So f equals three and a stride of two. So this reduces the volume to 27 by 27 by 96, and then it performs a 5 by 5 same convolution, same padding, so you end up with 27 by 27 by 276. Max pooling again, this reduces the height and width to 13. And then another same convolution, so same padding. So it's 13 by 13 by now 384 filters. And then 3 by 3, same convolution again, gives you that. Then 3 by 3, same convolution, gives you that. Then max pool, brings it down to 6 by 6 by 256. If you multiply all these numbers,6 times 6 times 256, that's 9216. So we're going to unroll this into 9216 nodes. And then finally, it has a few fully connected layers. And then finally, it uses a softmax to output which one of 1000 causes the object could be. So this neural network actually had a lot of similarities to LeNet, but it was much bigger. So whereas the LeNet-5 from previous slide had about 60,000 parameters, this AlexNet that had about 60 million parameters. And the fact that they could take pretty similar basic building blocks that have a lot more hidden units and training on a lot more data, they trained on the image that dataset that allowed it to have a just remarkable performance. Another aspect of this architecture that made it much better than LeNet was using the value activation function. And then again, just if you read the bay paper some more advanced details that you don't really need to worry about if you don't read the paper, one is that, when this paper was written, GPUs was still a little bit slower, so it had a complicated way of training on two GPUs. And the basic idea was that, a lot of these layers was actually split across two different GPUs and there was a thoughtful way for when the two GPUs would communicate with each other. And the paper also, the original AlexNet architecture also had another set of a layer called a Local Response Normalization. And this type of layer isn't really used much, which is why I didn't talk about it. But the basic idea of Local Response Normalization is, if you look at one of these blocks, one of these volumes that we have on top, let's say for the sake of argument, this one, 13 by 13 by 256, what Local Response Normalization, (LRN) does, is you look at one position. So one position height and width, and look down this across all the channels, look at all 256 numbers and normalize them. And the motivation for this Local Response Normalization was that for each position in this 13 by 13 image, maybe you don't want too many neurons with a very high activation. But subsequently, many researchers have found that this doesn't help that much so this is one of those ideas I guess I'm drawing in red because it's less important for you to understand this one. And in practice, I don't really use local response normalizations really in the networks language trained today. So if you are interested in the history of deep learning, I think even before AlexNet, deep learning was starting to gain traction in speech recognition and a few other areas, but it was really just paper that convinced a lot of the computer vision community to take a serious look at deep learning to convince them that deep learning really works in computer vision. And then it grew on to have a huge impact not just in computer vision but beyond computer vision as well. And if you want to try reading some of these papers yourself and you really don't have to for this course, but if you want to try reading some of these papers, this one is one of the easier ones to read so this might be a good one to take a look at. So whereas AlexNet had a relatively complicated architecture, there's just a lot of hyperparameters, right? Where you have all these numbers that Alex Krizhevsky and his co-authors had to come up with. Let me show you a third and final example on this video called the VGG or VGG-16 network. And a remarkable thing about the VGG-16 net is that they said, instead of having so many hyperparameters, let's use a much simpler network where you focus on just having conv-layers that are just three-by-three filters with a stride of one and always use same padding. And make all your max pulling layers two-by-two with a stride of two. And so, one very nice thing about the VGG network was it really simplified this neural network architectures. So, let's go through the architecture. So, you solve up with an image for them and then the first two layers are convolutions, which are therefore these three-by-three filters. And in the first two layers use 64 filters. You end up with a 224 by 224 because using same convolutions and then with 64 channels. So because VGG-16 is a relatively deep network, am going to not draw all the volumes here. So what this little picture denotes is what we would previously have drawn as this 224 by 224 by 3. And then a convolution that results in I guess a 224 by 224 by 64 is to be drawn as a deeper volume, and then another layer that results in 224 by 224 by 64. So this conv64 times two represents that you're doing two conv-layers with 64 filters. And as I mentioned earlier, the filters are always three-by-three with a stride of one and they are always same convolutions. So rather than drawing all these volumes, am just going to use text to represent this network. Next, then uses are pulling layer, so the pulling layer will reduce. I think it goes from 224 by 224 down to what? Right. Goes to 112 by 112 by 64. And then it has a couple more conv-layers. So this means it has 128 filters and because these are the same convolutions, let's see what is the new dimension. Right? It will be 112 by 112 by 128 and then pulling layer so you can figure out what's the new dimension of that. And now, three conv-layers with 256 filters to the pulling layer and then a few more conv-layers, pulling layer, more conv-layers, pulling layer. And then it takes this final 7 by 7 by 512 these in to fully connected layer, fully connected with four thousand ninety six units and then a softmax output one of a thousand classes. By the way, the 16 in the VGG-16 refers to the fact that this has 16 layers that have weights. And this is a pretty large network, this network has a total of about 138 million parameters. And that's pretty large even by modern standards. But the simplicity of the VGG-16 architecture made it quite appealing. You can tell his architecture is really quite uniform. There is a few conv-layers followed by a pulling layer, which reduces the height and width, right? So the pulling layers reduce the height and width. You have a few of them here. But then also, if you look at the number of filters in the conv-layers, here you have 64 filters and then you double to 128 double to 256 doubles to 512. And then I guess the authors thought 512 was big enough and did double on the game here. But this sort of roughly doubling on every step, or doubling through every stack of conv-layers was another simple principle used to design the architecture of this network. And so I think the relative uniformity of this architecture made it quite attractive to researchers. The main downside was that it was a pretty large network in terms of the number of parameters you had to train. And if you read the literature, you sometimes see people talk about the VGG-19, that is an even bigger version of this network. And you could see the details in the paper cited at the bottom by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. But because VGG-16 does almost as well as VGG-19. A lot of people will use VGG-16. But the thing I liked most about this was that, this made this pattern of how, as you go deeper and height and width goes down, it just goes down by a factor of two each time for the pulling layers whereas the number of channels increases. And here roughly goes up by a factor of two every time you have a new set of conv-layers. So by making the rate at which it goes down and that go up very systematic, I thought this paper was very attractive from that perspective. So that's it for the three classic architecture's. If you want, you should really now read some of these papers. I recommend starting with the AlexNet paper followed by the VGG net paper and then the LeNet paper is a bit harder to read but it is a good classic once you go over that. But next, let's go beyond these classic networks and look at some even more advanced, even more powerful neural network architectures. Let's go onto the next video.

### ResNets
Very, very deep neural networks are difficult to train because of vanishing and exploding gradient types of problems. In this video, you'll learn about skip connections which allows you to take the activation from one layer and suddenly feed it to another layer even much deeper in the neural network. And using that, you'll build ResNet which enables you to train very, very deep networks. Sometimes even networks of over 100 layers. Let's take a look. ResNets are built out of something called a residual block, let's first describe what that is. Here are two layers of a neural network where you start off with some activations in layer a[l], then goes a[l+1] and then deactivation two layers later is a[l+2]. So let's to through the steps in this computation you have a[l], and then the first thing you do is you apply this linear operator to it, which is governed by this equation. So you go from a[l] to compute z[l +1] by multiplying by the weight matrix and adding that bias vector. After that, you apply the ReLU nonlinearity, to get a[l+1]. And that's governed by this equation where a[l+1] is g(z[l+1]). Then in the next layer, you apply this linear step again, so is governed by that equation. So this is quite similar to this equation we saw on the left. And then finally, you apply another ReLU operation which is now governed by that equation where G here would be the ReLU nonlinearity. And this gives you a[l+2]. So in other words, for information from a[l] to flow to a[l+2], it needs to go through all of these steps which I'm going to call the main path of this set of layers. In a residual net, we're going to make a change to this. We're going to take a[l], and just first forward it, copy it, match further into the neural network to here, and just at a[l], before applying to non-linearity, the ReLU non-linearity. And I'm going to call this the shortcut. So rather than needing to follow the main path, the information from a[l] can now follow a shortcut to go much deeper into the neural network. And what that means is that this last equation goes away and we instead have that the output a[l+2] is the ReLU non-linearity g applied to z[l+2] as before, but now plus a[l]. So, the addition of this a[l] here, it makes this a residual block. And in pictures, you can also modify this picture on top by drawing this picture shortcut to go here. And we are going to draw it as it going into this second layer here because the short cut is actually added before the ReLU non-linearity. So each of these nodes here, whwre there applies a linear function and a ReLU. So a[l] is being injected after the linear part but before the ReLU part. And sometimes instead of a term short cut, you also hear the term skip connection, and that refers to a[l] just skipping over a layer or kind of skipping over almost two layers in order to process information deeper into the neural network. So, what the inventors of ResNet, so that'll will be Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren and Jian Sun. What they found was that using residual blocks allows you to train much deeper neural networks. And the way you build a ResNet is by taking many of these residual blocks, blocks like these, and stacking them together to form a deep network. So, let's look at this network. This is not the residual network, this is called as a plain network. This is the terminology of the ResNet paper. To turn this into a ResNet, what you do is you add all those skip connections although those short like a connections like so. So every two layers ends up with that additional change that we saw on the previous slide to turn each of these into residual block. So this picture shows five residual blocks stacked together, and this is a residual network. And it turns out that if you use your standard optimization algorithm such as a gradient descent or one of the fancier optimization algorithms to the train or plain network. So without all the extra residual, without all the extra short cuts or skip connections I just drew in. Empirically, you find that as you increase the number of layers, the training error will tend to decrease after a while but then they'll tend to go back up. And in theory as you make a neural network deeper, it should only do better and better on the training set. Right. So, the theory, in theory, having a deeper network should only help. But in practice or in reality, having a plain network, so no ResNet, having a plain network that is very deep means that all your optimization algorithm just has a much harder time training. And so, in reality, your training error gets worse if you pick a network that's too deep. But what happens with ResNet is that even as the number of layers gets deeper, you can have the performance of the training error kind of keep on going down. Even if we train a network with over a hundred layers. And then now some people experimenting with networks of over a thousand layers although I don't see that it used much in practice yet. But by taking these activations be it X of these intermediate activations and allowing it to go much deeper in the neural network, this really helps with the vanishing and exploding gradient problems and allows you to train much deeper neural networks without really appreciable loss in performance, and maybe at some point, this will plateau, this will flatten out, and it doesn't help that much deeper and deeper networks. But ResNet is not even effective at helping train very deep networks. So you've now gotten an overview of how ResNets work. And in fact, in this week's programming exercise, you get to implement these ideas and see it work for yourself. But next, I want to share with you better intuition or even more intuition about why ResNets work so well, let's go onto the next video.

### Why ResNets Work
So, why do ResNets work so well? Let's go through one example that illustrates why ResNets work so well, at least in the sense of how you can make them deeper and deeper without really hurting your ability to at least get them to do well on the training set. And hopefully as you've understood from the third course in this sequence, doing well on the training set is usually a prerequisite to doing well on your hold up or on your depth or on your test sets. So, being able to at least train ResNet to do well on the training set is a good first step toward that. Let's look at an example. What we saw on the last video was that if you make a network deeper, it can hurt your ability to train the network to do well on the training set. And that's why sometimes you don't want a network that is too deep. But this is not true or at least is much less true when you training a ResNet. So let's go through an example. Let's say you have X feeding in to some big neural network and just outputs some activation a[l]. Let's say for this example that you are going to modify the neural network to make it a little bit deeper. So, use the same big NN, and this output's a[l], and we're going to add a couple extra layers to this network so let's add one layer there and another layer there. And just for output a[l+2]. Only let's make this a ResNet block, a residual block with that extra short cut. And for the sake our argument, let's say throughout this network we're using the value activation functions. So, all the activations are going to be greater than or equal to zero, with the possible exception of the input X. Right. Because the value activation output's numbers that are either zero or positive. Now, let's look at what's a[l+2] will be. To copy the expression from the previous video, a[l+2] will be value apply to z[l+2], and then plus a[l] where is this addition of a[l] comes from the short circle from the skip connection that we just added. And if we expand this out, this is equal to g of w[l+2], times a of [l+1], plus b[l+2]. So that's z[l+2] is equal to that, plus a[l]. Now notice something, if you are using L two regularisation away to K, that will tend to shrink the value of w[l+2]. If you are applying way to K to B that will also shrink this although I guess in practice sometimes you do and sometimes you don't apply way to K to B, but W is really the key term to pay attention to here. And if w[l+2] is equal to zero. And let's say for the sake of argument that B is also equal to zero, then these terms go away because they're equal to zero, and then g of a[l], this is just equal to a[l] because we assumed we're using the value activation function. And so all of the activations are all negative and so, g of a[l] is the value applied to a non-negative quantity, so you just get back, a[l]. So, what this shows is that the identity function is easy for residual block to learn. And it's easy to get a[l+2] equals to a[l] because of this skip connection. And what that means is that adding these two layers in your neural network, it doesn't really hurt your neural network's ability to do as well as this simpler network without these two extra layers, because it's quite easy for it to learn the identity function to just copy a[l] to a[l+2] using despite the addition of these two layers. And this is why adding two extra layers, adding this residual block to somewhere in the middle or the end of this big neural network it doesn't hurt performance. But of course our goal is to not just not hurt performance, is to help performance and so you can imagine that if all of these heading units if they actually learned something useful then maybe you can do even better than learning the identity function. And what goes wrong in very deep plain nets in very deep network without this residual of the skip connections is that when you make the network deeper and deeper, it's actually very difficult for it to choose parameters that learn even the identity function which is why a lot of layers end up making your result worse rather than making your result better. And I think the main reason the residual network works is that it's so easy for these extra layers to learn the identity function that you're kind of guaranteed that it doesn't hurt performance and then a lot the time you maybe get lucky and then even helps performance. At least is easier to go from a decent baseline of not hurting performance and then great in decent can only improve the solution from there. So, one more detail in the residual network that's worth discussing which is through this edition here, we're assuming that z[l+2] and a[l] have the same dimension. And so what you see in ResNet is a lot of use of same convolutions so that the dimension of this is equal to the dimension I guess of this layer or the outputs layer. So that we can actually do this short circle connection, because the same convolution preserve dimensions, and so makes that easier for you to carry out this short circle and then carry out this addition of two equal dimension vectors. In case the input and output have different dimensions so for example, if this is a 128 dimensional and Z or therefore, a[l] is 256 dimensional as an example. What you would do is add an extra matrix and then call that Ws over here, and Ws in this example would be a[l] 256 by 128 dimensional matrix. So then Ws times a[l] becomes 256 dimensional and this addition is now between two 256 dimensional vectors and there are few things you could do with Ws, it could be a matrix of parameters we learned, it could be a fixed matrix that just implements zero paddings that takes a[l] and then zero pads it to be 256 dimensional and either of those versions I guess could work. So finally, let's take a look at ResNets on images. So these are images I got from the paper by Harlow. This is an example of a plain network and in which you input an image and then have a number of conv layers until eventually you have a softmax output at the end. To turn this into a ResNet, you add those extra skip connections. And I'll just mention a few details, there are a lot of three by three convolutions here and most of these are three by three same convolutions and that's why you're adding equal dimension feature vectors. So rather than a fully connected layer, these are actually convolutional layers but because the same convolutions, the dimensions are preserved and so the z[l+2] plus a[l] by addition makes sense. And similar to what you've seen in a lot of NetRes before, you have a bunch of convolutional layers and then there are occasionally pulling layers as well or pulling a pulling likely is. And whenever one of those things happen, then you need to make an adjustment to the dimension which we saw on the previous slide. You can do of the matrix Ws, and then as is common in these networks, you have <unknown> pool, and then at the end you now have a fully connected layer that then makes a prediction using a softmax. So that's it for ResNet. Next, there's a very interesting idea behind using neural networks with one by one filters, one by one convolutions. So, one could use a one by one convolution. Let's take a look at the next video.
  

### Networks in Networks and 1x1 Convolutions
### Inception Network Motivation
When designing a layer for a ConvNet, you might have to pick, do you want a 1 by 3 filter, or 3 by 3, or 5 by 5, or do you want a pooling layer? What the inception network does is it says, why should you do them all? And this makes the network architecture more complicated, but it also works remarkably well. Let's see how this works. Let's say for the sake of example that you have inputted a 28 by 28 by 192 dimensional volume. So what the inception network or what an inception layer says is, instead choosing what filter size you want in a Conv layer, or even do you want a convolutional layer or a pooling layer? Let's do them all. So what if you can use a 1 by 1 convolution, and that will output a 28 by 28 by something. Let's say 28 by 28 by 64 output, and you just have a volume there. But maybe you also want to try a 3 by 3 and that might output a 20 by 20 by 128. And then what you do is just stack up this second volume next to the first volume. And to make the dimensions match up, let's make this a same convolution. So the output dimension is still 28 by 28, same as the input dimension in terms of height and width. But 28 by 28 by in this example 128. And maybe you might say well I want to hedge my bets. Maybe a 5 by 5 filter works better. So let's do that too and have that output a 28 by 28 by 32. And again you use the same convolution to keep the dimensions the same. And maybe you don't want to convolutional layer. Let's apply pooling, and that has some other output and let's stack that up as well. And here pooling outputs 28 by 28 by 32. Now in order to make all the dimensions match, you actually need to use padding for max pooling. So this is an unusual formal pooling because if you want the input to have a higher than 28 by 28 and have the output, you'll match the dimension everything else also by 28 by 28, then you need to use the same padding as well as a stride of one for pooling. So this detail might seem a bit funny to you now, but let's keep going. And we'll make this all work later. But with a inception module like this, you can input some volume and output. In this case I guess if you add up all these numbers, 32 plus 32 plus 128 plus 64, that's equal to 256. So you will have one inception module input 28 by 28 by 192, and output 28 by 28 by 256. And this is the heart of the inception network which is due to Christian Szegedy, Wei Liu, Yangqing Jia, Pierre Sermanet, Scott Reed, Dragomir Anguelov, Dumitru Erhan, Vincent Vanhoucke and Andrew Rabinovich. And the basic idea is that instead of you needing to pick one of these filter sizes or pooling you want and committing to that, you can do them all and just concatenate all the outputs, and let the network learn whatever parameters it wants to use, whatever the combinations of these filter sizes it wants. Now it turns out that there is a problem with the inception layer as we've described it here, which is computational cost. On the next slide, let's figure out what's the computational cost of this 5 by 5 filter resulting in this block over here. So just focusing on the 5 by 5 pot on the previous slide, we had as input a 28 by 28 by 192 block, and you implement a 5 by 5 same convolution of 32 filters to output 28 by 28 by 32. On the previous slide I had drawn this as a thin purple slide. So I'm just going draw this as a more normal looking blue block here. So let's look at the computational costs of outputting this 20 by 20 by 32. So you have 32 filters because the outputs has 32 channels, and each filter is going to be 5 by 5 by 192. And so the output size is 20 by 20 by 32, and so you need to compute 28 by 28 by 32 numbers. And for each of them you need to do these many multiplications, right? 5 by 5 by 192. So the total number of multiplies you need is the number of multiplies you need to compute each of the output values times the number of output values you need to compute. And if you multiply all of these numbers, this is equal to 120 million. And so, while you can do 120 million multiplies on the modern computer, this is still a pretty expensive operation. On the next slide you see how using the idea of 1 by 1 convolutions, which you learnt about in the previous video, you'll be able to reduce the computational costs by about a factor of 10. To go from about 120 million multiplies to about one tenth of that. So please remember the number 120 so you can compare it with what you see on the next slide, 120 million. Here is an alternative architecture for inputting 28 by 28 by 192, and outputting 28 by 28 by 32, which is falling. You are going to input the volume, use a 1 by 1 convolution to reduce the volume to 16 channels instead of 192 channels, and then on this much smaller volume, run your 5 by 5 convolution to give you your final output. So notice the input and output dimensions are still the same. You input 28 by 28 by 192 and output 28 by 28 by 32, same as the previous slide. But what we've done is we're taking this huge volume we had on the left, and we shrunk it to this much smaller intermediate volume, which only has 16 instead of 192 channels. Sometimes this is called a bottleneck layer, right? I guess because a bottleneck is usually the smallest part of something, right? So I guess if you have a glass bottle that looks like this, then you know this is I guess where the cork goes. And then the bottleneck is the smallest part of this bottle. So in the same way, the bottleneck layer is the smallest part of this network. We shrink the representation before increasing the size again. Now let's look at the computational costs involved. To apply this 1 by 1 convolution, we have 16 filters. Each of the filters is going to be of dimension 1 by 1 by 192, this 192 matches that 192. And so the cost of computing this 28 by 28 by 16 volumes is going to be well, you need these many outputs, and for each of them you need to do 192 multiplications. I could have written 1 times 1 times 192, right? Which is this. And if you multiply this out, this is 2.4 million, it's about 2.4 million. How about the second? So that's the cost of this first convolutional layer. The cost of this second convolutional layer would be that well, you have these many outputs. So 28 by 28 by 32. And then for each of the outputs you have to apply a 5 by 5 by 16 dimensional filter. And so by 5 by 5 by 16. And you multiply that out is equals to 10.0. And so the total number of multiplications you need to do is the sum of those which is 12.4 million multiplications. And you compare this with what we had on the previous slide, you reduce the computational cost from about 120 million multiplies, down to about one tenth of that, to 12.4 million multiplications. And the number of additions you need to do is about very similar to the number of multiplications you need to do. So that's why I'm just counting the number of multiplications. So to summarize, if you are building a layer of a neural network and you don't want to have to decide, do you want a 1 by 1, or 3 by 3, or 5 by 5, or pooling layer, the inception module let's you say let's do them all, and let's concatenate the results. And then we run to the problem of computational cost. And what you saw here was how using a 1 by 1 convolution, you can create this bottleneck layer thereby reducing the computational cost significantly. Now you might be wondering, does shrinking down the representation size so dramatically, does it hurt the performance of your neural network? It turns out that so long as you implement this bottleneck layer so that within reason, you can shrink down the representation size significantly, and it doesn't seem to hurt the performance, but saves you a lot of computation. So these are the key ideas of the inception module. Let's put them together and in the next video show you what the full inception network looks like.
### Inception Network
0:00
In a previous video, you've already seen all the basic building blocks of the Inception network. In this video, let's see how you can put these building blocks together to build your own Inception network.
0:13
So the inception module takes as input the activation or the output from some previous layer. So let's say for the sake of argument this is 28 by 28 by 192, same as our previous video. The example we worked through in depth was the 1 by 1 followed by 5 by 5. There, so maybe the 1 by 1 has 16 channels and then the 5 by 5 will output a 28 by 28 by, let's say, 32 channels.
0:49
And this is the example we worked through on the last slide of the previous video.
0:54
Then to save computation on your 3 by 3 convolution you can also do the same here. And then the 3 by 3 outputs, 28 by 28 by 1 by 28.
1:09
And then maybe you want to consider a 1 by 1 convolution as well. There's no need to do a 1 by 1 conv followed by another 1 by 1 conv so there's just one step here and let's say these outputs 28 by 28 by 64. And then finally is the pulling layer.
1:34
So here I'm going to do something funny. In order to really concatenate all of these outputs at the end we are going to use the same type of padding for pooling. So that the output height and width is still 28 by 28. So we can concatenate it with these other outputs. But notice that if you do max-pooling, even with same padding, 3 by 3 filter is tried at 1. The output here will be 28 by 28, By 192. It will have the same number of channels and the same depth as the input that we had here. So, this seems like is has a lot of channels. So what we're going to do is actually add one more 1 by 1 conv layer to then to what we saw in the one by one convilational video, to strengthen the number of channels. So it gets us down to 28 by 28 by let's say, 32. And the way you do that, is to use 32 filters, of dimension 1 by 1 by 192. So that's why the output dimension has a number of channels shrunk down to 32. So then we don't end up with the pulling layer taking up all the channels in the final output.
3:02
And finally you take all of these blocks and you do channel concatenation. Just concatenate across this 64 plus 128 plus 32 plus 32 and this if you add it up this gives you a 28 by 28 by 256 dimension output. Concat is just this concatenating the blocks that we saw in the previous video.
3:33
So this is one inception module, and what the inception network does, is, more or less, put a lot of these modules together.
3:45
Here's a picture of the inception network, taken from the paper by Szegedy et al
3:53
And you notice a lot of repeated blocks in this. Maybe this picture looks really complicated. But if you look at one of the blocks there, that block is basically the inception module that you saw on the previous slide.
4:10
And subject to little details I won't discuss, this is another inception block. This is another inception block. There's some extra max pooling layers here to change the dimension
4:24
of the heightened width. But that's another inception block. And then there's another max put here to change the height and width but basically there's another inception block. But the inception network is just a lot of these blocks that you've learned about repeated to different positions of the network. But so you understand the inception block from the previous slide, then you understand the inception network.
4:49
It turns out that there's one last detail to the inception network if we read the optional research paper. Which is that there are these additional side-branches that I just added.
5:01
So what do they do? Well, the last few layers of the network is a fully connected layer followed by a softmax layer to try to make a prediction. What these side branches do is it takes some hidden layer and it tries to use that to make a prediction. So this is actually a softmax output and so is that. And this other side branch, again it is a hidden layer passes through a few layers like a few connected layers. And then has the softmax try to predict what's the output label.
5:35
And you should think of this as maybe just another detail of the inception that's worked. But what is does is it helps to ensure that the features computed. Even in the heading units, even at intermediate layers. That they're not too bad for protecting the output cause of a image. And this appears to have a regularizing effect on the inception network and helps prevent this network from overfitting.
6:03
And by the way, this particular Inception network was developed by authors at Google. Who called it GoogleNet, spelled like that, to pay homage to the network. That you learned about in an earlier video as well.
6:23
So I think it's actually really nice that the Deep Learning Community is so collaborative. And that there's such strong healthy respect for each other's' work in the Deep Learning Learning community. FInally here's one fun fact. Where does the name inception network come from?
6:41
The inception paper actually cites this meme for we need to go deeper. And this URL is an actual reference in the inception paper, which links to this image. And if you've seen the movie titled The Inception, maybe this meme will make sense to you. But the authors actually cite this meme as motivation for needing to build deeper new networks. And that's how they came up with the inception architecture. So I guess it's not often that research papers get to cite Internet memes in their citations. But in this case, I guess it worked out quite well.
7:23
So to summarize, if you understand the inception module, then you understand the inception network. Which is largely the inception module repeated a bunch of times throughout the network. Since the development of the original inception module, the author and others have built on it and come up with other versions as well. So there are research papers on newer versions of the inception algorithm. And you sometimes see people use some of these later versions as well in their work, like inception v2, inception v3, inception v4. There's also an inception version. This combined with the resonant idea of having skipped connections, and that sometimes works even better. But all of these variations are built on the basic idea that you learned about this in the previous video of coming up with the inception module and then stacking up a bunch of them together. And with these videos you should be able to read and understand, I think, the inception paper, as well as maybe some of the papers describing the later derivation as well. So that's it, you've gone through quite a lot of specialized neural network architectures. In the next video, I want to start showing you some more practical advice on how you actually use these algorithms to build your own computer vision system. Let's go on to the next video.
