### Using Open Source Implementation
Hello and welcome back. This week the first thing we'll do is show you a number of case studies of the factor convolutional neural networks. So why look at case studies? Last week we learned about the basic building blocks such as convolutional layers, proving layers and fully connected layers of conv nets. It turns out a lot of the past few years of computer vision research has been on how to put together these basic building blocks to form effective convolutional neural networks. And one of the best ways for you to get intuition yourself is to see some of these examples. I think just as many of you may have learned to write codes by reading other people's codes, I think that a good way to get intuition on how to build conv nets is to read or to see other examples of effective conv nets. And it turns out that a net neural network architecture that works well on one computer vision task often works well on other tasks as well such as maybe on your task. So if someone else is training neural network as speak it out in your network architecture is very good at recognizing cats and dogs and people but you have a different computer vision task like maybe you're trying to sell self-driving car. You might well be able to take someone else's neural network architecture and apply that to your problem. And finally, after the next few videos, you'll be able to read some of the research papers from the theater computer vision and I hope that you might find it satisfying as well. You don't have to do this as a class but I hope you might find it satisfying to be able to read some of these seminal computer vision research paper and see yourself able to understand them. So with that, let's get started. As an outline of what we'll do in the next few videos, we'll first show you a few classic networks. The LeNEt-5 network which came from, I guess, in 1980s, AlexNet which is often cited and the VGG network and these are examples of pretty effective neural networks. And some of the ideas lay the foundation for modern computer vision. And you see ideas in these papers that are probably useful for your own.
2:06
And you see ideas from these papers that were probably be useful for your own work as well. Then I want to show you the ResNet or conv residual network and you might have heard that neural networks are getting deeper and deeper. The ResNet neural network trained a very, very deep 152-layer neural network that has some very interesting tricks, interesting ideas how to do that effectively. And then finally you also see a case study of the Inception neural network. After seeing these neural networks, l think you have much better intuition about how to built effective convolutional neural networks. And even if you end up not working computer vision yourself, I think you find a lot of the ideas from some of these examples, such as ResNet Inception network, many of these ideas are cross-fertilizing on making their way into other disciplines. So even if you don't end up building computer vision applications yourself, I think you'll find some of these ideas very interesting and helpful for your work.

### Transfer Learning
If you're building a computer vision application rather than training the ways from scratch, from random initialization, you often make much faster progress if you download ways that someone else has already trained on the network architecture and use that as pre-training and transfer that to a new task that you might be interested in. The computer vision research community has been pretty good at posting lots of data sets on the Internet so if you hear of things like Image Net, or MS COCO, or Pascal types of data sets, these are the names of different data sets that people have post online and a lot of computer researchers have trained their algorithms on. Sometimes these training takes several weeks and might take many GP use and the fact that someone else has done this and gone through the painful high-performance search process, means that you can often download open source ways that took someone else many weeks or months to figure out and use that as a very good initialization for your own neural network. And use transfer learning to sort of transfer knowledge from some of these very large public data sets to your own problem. Let's take a deeper look at how to do this. Let's start with the example, let's say you're building a cat detector to recognize your own pet cat. According to the internet, Tigger is a common cat name and Misty is another common cat name. Let's say your cats are called Tiger and Misty and there's also neither. You have a classification problem with three clauses. Is this picture Tigger, or is it Misty, or is it neither. And in all the case of both of you cats appearing in the picture. Now, you probably don't have a lot of pictures of Tigger or Misty so your training set will be small. What can you do? I recommend you go online and download some open source implementation of a neural network and download not just the code but also the weights. There are a lot of networks you can download that have been trained on for example, the Init Net data sets which has a thousand different clauses so the network might have a softmax unit that outputs one of a thousand possible clauses. What you can do is then get rid of the softmax layer and create your own softmax unit that outputs Tigger or Misty or neither. In terms of the network, I'd encourage you to think of all of these layers as frozen so you freeze the parameters in all of these layers of the network and you would then just train the parameters associated with your softmax layer. Which is the softmax layer with three possible outputs, Tigger, Misty or neither. By using someone else's free trade ways, you might probably get pretty good performance on this even with a small data set. Fortunately, a lot of people learning frameworks support this mode of operation and in fact, depending on the framework it might have things like trainable parameter equals zero, you might set that for some of these early layers. In others they just say, don't train those ways or sometimes you have a parameter like freeze equals one and these are different ways and different deep learning program frameworks that let you specify whether or not to train the ways associated with particular layer. In this case, you will train only the softmax layers ways but freeze all of the earlier layers ways. One other neat trick that may help for some implementations is that because all of these early leads are frozen, there are some fixed function that doesn't change because you're not changing it, you not training it that takes this input image acts and maps it to some set of activations in that layer. One of the trick that could speed up training is we just pre-compute that layer, the features of re-activations from that layer and just save them to disk. What you're doing is using this fixed function, in this first part of the neural network, to take this input any image X and compute some feature vector for it and then you're training a shallow softmax model from this feature vector to make a prediction. One step that could help your computation as you just pre-compute that layers activation, for all the examples in training sets and save them to disk and then just train the softmax clause right on top of that. The advantage of the safety disk or the pre-compute method or the safety disk is that you don't need to recompute those activations everytime you take a epoch or take a post through a training set. This is what you do if you have a pretty small training set for your task. Whether you have a larger training set. One rule of thumb is if you have a larger label data set so maybe you just have a ton of pictures of Tigger, Misty as well as I guess pictures neither of them, one thing you could do is then freeze fewer layers. Maybe you freeze just these layers and then train these later layers. Although if the output layer has different clauses then you need to have your own output unit any way Tigger, Misty or neither. There are a couple of ways to do this. You could take the last few layers ways and just use that as initialization and do gradient descent from there or you can also blow away these last few layers and just use your own new hidden units and in your own final softmax outputs. Either of these matters could be worth trying. But maybe one pattern is if you have more data, the number of layers you've freeze could be smaller and then the number of layers you train on top could be greater. And the idea is that if you pick a data set and maybe have enough data not just to train a single softmax unit but to train some other size neural network that comprises the last few layers of this final network that you end up using. Finally, if you have a lot of data, one thing you might do is take this open source network and ways and use the whole thing just as initialization and train the whole network. Although again if this was a thousand of softmax and you have just three outputs, you need your own softmax output. The output of labels you care about. But the more label data you have for your task or the more pictures you have of Tigger, Misty and neither, the more layers you could train and in the extreme case, you could use the ways you download just as initialization so they would replace random initialization and then could do gradient descent, training updating all the ways and all the layers of the network. That's transfer learning for the training of ConvNets. In practice, because the open data sets on the internet are so big and the ways you can download that someone else has spent weeks training has learned from so much data, you find that for a lot of computer vision applications, you just do much better if you download someone else's open source ways and use that as initialization for your problem. In all the different disciplines, in all the different applications of deep learning, I think that computer vision is one where transfer learning is something that you should almost always do unless, you have an exceptionally large data set to train everything else from scratch yourself. But transfer learning is just very worth seriously considering unless you have an exceptionally large data set and a very large computation budget to train everything from scratch by yourself.

### Data Augmentation
Most computer vision task could use more data. And so data augmentation is one of the techniques that is often used to improve the performance of computer vision systems. I think that computer vision is a pretty complicated task. You have to input this image, all these pixels and then figure out what is in this picture. And it seems like you need to learn the decently complicated function to do that. And in practice, there almost all competing visions task having more data will help. This is unlike some other domains where sometimes you can get enough data, they don't feel as much pressure to get even more data. But I think today, this data computer vision is that, for the majority of computer vision problems, we feel like we just can't get enough data. And this is not true for all applications of machine learning, but it does feel like it's true for computer vision. So, what that means is that when you're training in computer vision model, often data augmentation will help. And this is true whether you're using transfer learning or using someone else's pre-trained ways to start, or whether you're trying to train something yourself from scratch. Let's take a look at the common data augmentation that is in computer vision. Perhaps the simplest data augmentation method is mirroring on the vertical axis, where if you have this example in your training set, you flip it horizontally to get that image on the right. And for most computer vision task, if the left picture is a cat then mirroring it is though a cat. And if the mirroring operation preserves whatever you're trying to recognize in the picture, this would be a good data augmentation technique to use. Another commonly used technique is random cropping. So given this dataset, let's pick a few random crops. So you might pick that, and take that crop or you might take that, to that crop, take this, take that crop and so this gives you different examples to feed in your training sample, sort of different random crops of your datasets. So random cropping isn't a perfect data augmentation. What if you randomly end up taking that crop which will look much like a cat but in practice and worthwhile so long as your random crops are reasonably large subsets of the actual image. So, mirroring and random cropping are frequently used and in theory, you could also use things like rotation, shearing of the image, so that's if you do this to the image, distort it that way, introduce various forms of local warping and so on. And there's really no harm with trying all of these things as well, although in practice they seem to be used a bit less, or perhaps because of their complexity. The second type of data augmentation that is commonly used is color shifting. So, given a picture like this, let's say you add to the R, G and B channels different distortions. In this example, we are adding to the red and blue channels and subtracting from the green channel. So, red and blue make purple. So, this makes the whole image a bit more purpley and that creates a distorted image for training set. For illustration purposes, I'm making somewhat dramatic changes to the colors and practice, you draw R, G and B from some distribution that could be quite small as well. But what you do is take different values of R, G, and B and use them to distort the color channels. So, in the second example, we are making a less red, and more green and more blue, so that turns our image a bit more yellowish. And here, we are making it much more blue, just a tiny little bit longer. But in practice, the values R, G and B, are drawn from some probability distribution. And the motivation for this is that if maybe the sunlight was a bit yellow or maybe the in-goal illumination was a bit more yellow, that could easily change the color of an image, but the identity of the cat or the identity of the content, the label y, just still stay the same. And so introducing these color distortions or by doing color shifting, this makes your learning algorithm more robust to changes in the colors of your images. Just a comment for the advanced learners in this course, that is okay if you don't understand what I'm about to say when using red. There are different ways to sample R, G, and B. One of the ways to implement color distortion uses an algorithm called PCA. This is called Principles Component Analysis, which I talked about in the ml-class.org Machine Learning Course on Coursera. But the details of this are actually given in the AlexNet paper, and sometimes called PCA Color Augmentation. But the rough idea at the time PCA Color Augmentation is for example, if your image is mainly purple, if it mainly has red and blue tints, and very little green, then PCA Color Augmentation, will add and subtract a lot to red and blue, where it balance [inaudible] all the greens, so kind of keeps the overall color of the tint the same. If you didn't understand any of this, don't worry about it. But if you can search online for that, you can and if you want to read about the details of it in the AlexNet paper, and you can also find some open source implementations of the PCA Color Augmentation, and just use that. So, you might have your training data stored in a hard disk and uses symbol, this round bucket symbol to represent your hard disk. And if you have a small training set, you can do almost anything and you'll be okay. But the very last training set and this is how people will often implement it, which is you might have a CPU thread that is constantly loading images of your hard disk. So, you have this stream of images coming in from your hard disk. And what you can do is use maybe a CPU thread to implement the distortions, yet the random cropping, or the color shifting, or the mirroring, but for each image, you might then end up with some distorted version of it. So, let's see this image, I'm going to mirror it and if you also implement colors distortion and so on. And if this image ends up being color shifted, so you end up with some different colored cat. And so your CPU thread is constantly loading data as well as implementing whether the distortions are needed to form a batch or really many batches of data. And this data is then constantly passed to some other thread or some other process for implementing training and this could be done on the CPU or really increasingly on the GPU if you have a large neural network to train. And so, a pretty common way of implementing data augmentation is to really have one thread, almost four threads, that is responsible for loading the data and implementing distortions, and then passing that to some other thread or some other process that then does the training. And often, this and this, can run in parallel. So, that's it for data augmentation. And similar to other parts of training a deep neural network, the data augmentation process also has a few hyperparameters such as how much color shifting do you implement and exactly what parameters you use for random cropping? So, similar to elsewhere in computer vision, a good place to get started might be to use someone else's open source implementation for how they use data augmentation. But of course, if you want to capture more in variances, then you think someone else's open source implementation isn't, it might be reasonable also to use hyperparameters yourself. So with that, I hope that you're going to use data augmentation, to get your computer vision applications to work better.

### State of Computer Vision
Deep learning has been successfully applied to computer vision, natural language processing, speech recognition, online advertising, logistics, many, many, many problems. There are a few things that are unique about the application of deep learning to computer vision, about the status of computer vision. In this video, I will share with you some of my observations about deep learning for computer vision and I hope that that will help you better navigate the literature, and the set of ideas out there, and how you build these systems yourself for computer vision. So, you can think of most machine learning problems as falling somewhere on the spectrum between where you have relatively little data to where you have lots of data. So, for example I think that today we have a decent amount of data for speech recognition and it's relative to the complexity of the problem. And even though there are reasonably large data sets today for image recognition or image classification, because image recognition is just a complicated problem to look at all those pixels and figure out what it is. It feels like even though the online data sets are quite big like over a million images, feels like we still wish we had more data. And there are some problems like object detection where we have even less data. So, just as a reminder image recognition was the problem of looking at a picture and telling you is this a cattle or not. Whereas object detection is look in the picture and actually you're putting the bounding boxes are telling you where in the picture the objects such as the car as well. And so because of the cost of getting the bounding boxes is just more expensive to label the objects and the bounding boxes. So, we tend to have less data for object detection than for image recognition. And object detection is something we'll discuss next week. So, if you look across a broad spectrum of machine learning problems, you see on average that when you have a lot of data you tend to find people getting away with using simpler algorithms as well as less hand-engineering. So, there's just less needing to carefully design features for the problem, but instead you can have a giant neural network, even a simpler architecture, and have a neural network. Just learn whether we want to learn we have a lot of data. Whereas, in contrast when you don't have that much data then on average you see people engaging in more hand-engineering. And if you want to be ungenerous you can say there are more hacks. But I think when you don't have much data then hand-engineering is actually the best way to get good performance. So, when I look at machine learning applications I think usually we have the learning algorithm has two sources of knowledge. One source of knowledge is the labeled data, really the (x,y) pairs you use for supervised learning. And the second source of knowledge is the hand-engineering. And there are lots of ways to hand-engineer a system. It can be from carefully hand designing the features, to carefully hand designing the network architectures to maybe other components of your system. And so when you don't have much labeled data you just have to call more on hand-engineering. And so I think computer vision is trying to learn a really complex function. And it often feels like we don't have enough data for computer vision. Even though data sets are getting bigger and bigger, often we just don't have as much data as we need. And this is why this data computer vision historically and even today has relied more on hand-engineering. And I think this is also why that either computer vision has developed rather complex network architectures, is because in the absence of more data the way to get good performance is to spend more time architecting, or fooling around with the network architecture. And in case you think I'm being derogatory of hand-engineering that's not at all my intent. When you don't have enough data hand-engineering is a very difficult, very skillful task that requires a lot of insight. And someone that is insightful with hand-engineering will get better performance, and is a great contribution to a project to do that hand-engineering when you don't have enough data. It's just when you have lots of data then I wouldn't spend time hand-engineering, I would spend time building up the learning system instead. But I think historically the fear the computer vision has used very small data sets, and so historically the computer vision literature has relied on a lot of hand-engineering. And even though in the last few years the amount of data with the right computer vision task has increased dramatically, I think that that has resulted in a significant reduction in the amount of hand-engineering that's being done. But there's still a lot of hand-engineering of network architectures and computer vision. Which is why you see very complicated hyper frantic choices in computer vision, are more complex than you do in a lot of other disciplines. And in fact, because you usually have smaller object detection data sets than image recognition data sets, when we talk about object detection that is task like this next week. You see that the algorithms become even more complex and has even more specialized components. Fortunately, one thing that helps a lot when you have little data is transfer learning. And I would say for the example from the previous slide of the tigger, misty, neither detection problem, you have soluble data that transfer learning will help a lot. And so that's another set of techniques that's used a lot for when you have relatively little data. If you look at the computer vision literature, and look at the sort of ideas out there, you also find that people are really enthusiastic. They're really into doing well on standardized benchmark data sets and on winning competitions. And for computer vision researchers if you do well and the benchmark is easier to get the paper published. So, there's just a lot of attention on doing well on these benchmarks. And the positive side of this is that, it helps the whole community figure out what are the most effective algorithms. But you also see in the papers people do things that allow you to do well on a benchmark, but that you wouldn't really use in a production or a system that you deploy in an actual application. So, here are a few tips on doing well on benchmarks. These are things that I don't myself pretty much ever use if I'm putting a system to production that is actually to serve customers. But one is ensembling. And what that means is, after you've figured out what neural network you want, train several neural networks independently and average their outputs. So, initialize say 3, or 5, or 7 neural networks randomly and train up all of these neural networks, and then average their outputs. And by the way it is important to average their outputs y hats. Don't average their weights that won't work. Look and you say seven neural networks that have seven different predictions and average that. And this will cause you to do maybe 1% better, or 2% better. So is a little bit better on some benchmark. And this will cause you to do a little bit better. Maybe sometimes as much as 1 or 2% which really help win a competition. But because ensembling means that to test on each image, you might need to run an image through anywhere from say 3 to 15 different networks quite typical. This slows down your running time by a factor of 3 to 15, or sometimes even more. And so ensembling is one of those tips that people use doing well in benchmarks and for winning competitions. But that I think is almost never use in production to serve actual customers. I guess unless you have huge computational budget and don't mind burning a lot more of it per customer image. Another thing you see in papers that really helps on benchmarks, is multi-crop at test time. So, what I mean by that is you've seen how you can do data augmentation. And multi-crop is a form of applying data augmentation to your test image as well. So, for example let's see a cat image and just copy it four times including two more versions. There's a technique called the 10-crop, which basically says let's say you take this central region that crop, and run it through your crossfire. And then take that crop up the left hand corner run through a crossfire, up right hand corner shown in green, lower left shown in yellow, lower right shown in orange, and run that through the crossfire. And then do the same thing with the mirrored image. Right. So I'll take the central crop, then take the four corners crops. So, that's one central crop here and here, there's four corners crop here and here. And if you add these up that's 10 different crops that you mentioned. So hence the name 10-crop. And so what you do, is you run these 10 images through your crossfire and then average the results. So, if you have the computational budget you could do this. Maybe you don't need as many as 10-crops, you can use a few crops. And this might get you a little bit better performance in a production system. By production I mean a system you're deploying for actual users. But this is another technique that is used much more for doing well on benchmarks than in actual production systems. And one of the big problems of ensembling is that you need to keep all these different networks around. And so that just takes up a lot more computer memory. For multi-crop I guess at least you keep just one network around. So it doesn't suck up as much memory, but it still slows down your run time quite a bit. So, these are tips you see and research papers will refer to these tips as well. But I personally do not tend to use these methods when building production systems even though they are great for doing better on benchmarks and on winning competitions. Because a lot of the computer vision problems are in the small data regime, others have done a lot of hand-engineering of the network architectures. And a neural network that works well on one vision problem often may be surprisingly, but they just often would work on other vision problems as well. So, to build a practical system often you do well starting off with someone else's neural network architecture. And you can use an open source implementation if possible, because the open source implementation might have figured out all the finicky details like the learning rate, case scheduler, and other hyper parameters. And finally someone else may have spent weeks training a model on half a dozen GP use and on over a million images. And so by using someone else's pretrained model and fine tuning on your data set, you can often get going much faster on an application. But of course if you have the compute resources and the inclination, don't let me stop you from training your own networks from scratch. And in fact if you want to invent your own computer vision algorithm, that's what you might have to do. So, that's it for this week, I hope that seeing a number of computer vision architectures helps you get a sense of what works. In this week's programming exercises you actually learn another programming framework and use that to implement resonance. So, I hope you enjoy that programming exercise and I look forward to seeing you next week.
