In this video we will create a simple dataset object and apply transforms to it. In this video we will review: Hot to Build a Data Set Class and Object How to Build a Data Set Transform, How to Compose Transforms. To create our own dataset class we must import the abstract class Dataset from torch dot utils dot data. We can then create a class “toy set”. This is a sub class of the Dataset class. Let's see what happens when we create an instance of that class. We can create an instance of our a data set object, let's use the box to represent the object and its important data attributes The values of our features and targets are created in the object constructor and assigned to the self dot x and self dot y tensors respectively, each with 100 sample. We also store the number of samples in the attribute length, we'll discuss transforms later. When we apply the function len to the object [as we override the method len in our object the function will return the attribute length.= This is the number of samples in our dataset that we defined in the constructor in this case the value is 100. The data set object behaves like a list, tuple, or any python iterable. We call the object with a square bracket representing the index we would like. This square bracket acts as a proxy for the method “get item". This method intern returns the sample indexes corresponding to tensor x and y and assigns them to the variable sample as a tuple, we will refer to these the first tensor in the tuple as tensor x and the second tensor as tensor y. This corresponds the the following values. The variable sample is returned. The result is a tuple, the first element of the tuple correspond to the first sample of x and the second element corresponds to the first sample of y. The dataset object is an Iterable as such we apply the loop directly on the dataset object. We can use a loop to obtain the first three samples as follows As you read: For the first iteration the method “get item” is called This is repeated for each subsequent iteration of the loop returning the first three samples. In many cases we would like to transform the data for example normalize or standardize the data. Instead of writing a function we will crate callable classes, the objects we create from these classes will apply transforms to the tensors. Let's create a simple transform class then create an object to see how it works. We create the class “add multiply” we will apply this to the data in our dataset toy “dataset “ Lets see two ways how to apply this transform to our dataset we will add a number to the first tensor element in our variable sample or tensor x and multiply the second element in our variable sample referred to as tensor y. In the constructor we have the parameters, “add x” the number we would like to add to tensor x and “mul Y” is a number we would like to multiply the y tensor by. We also have the method call, the method acts as a proxy for the brackets, this will make more sense when we call the object Lets see two ways how to apply this transform to our dataset. First lets apply the transform directly to the data set. Let's create a dataset object and see what happens when no transform object is passed In this case the parameter transform had no argument and is set to the default value of None. As a result the attribute “self dot transform” is set to None. When the “get item” method is called a None is passed, Python interprets a False. As a result when the get item method is called the tensor x and y will be returned. We can apply the transform directly to the dataset. We create a transform object and we apply it to the first sample of our dataset object. If you recall the dataset object returns a tuple, each element corresponds to the tensor x and y respectively. When we apply the transform object to the tensor the first element of the variable is assigned to x. The second element of the variable is assigned to y. The object adds the following, the value of “add x” to the tensors x, in this case the value is 1 and multiplies tensor y by the value “mul y” in this case the value is y. We then reassign it to the variable sample. The value is returned, the result is one is added to the tensor in the first element of the tuple and the second element is left unchanged. A more convenient way is to automatically apply the transform when we call the method. First, we create a transform object. We pass the object to the constructor as an argument, This time we add an underscore to the object name to signify that a transform object has been applied. As a result of the attribute “self transform" is set to the transform object. In the original dataset object when the get item is called the samples were returned without any transform being applied If we examine the first sample of the object where transform was included in the constructor The transform is applied when the “get item: is called and each of these tensors have the transform applied to them. In many cases we would like to run several transforms in series, you can do this using the class Compose in the transforms module. In addition to our “add mult”. Let's say we would like to apply another transform. In this case we create the class “mult” hat will multiply all the elements of a tensor by the value mul. We simply create a transforms Compose object In the constructor we place a list. The first element of the list is the constructor for the first transform the second element of the list is the constructor for the second transform. We can apply the transform on the data directly The function takes the input elements of the dataset, applies the first transform, applies the second transform, and returns the output as a tuple containing the tensors. We can apply the compose object directly in the dataset constructor Each time we retrieve a sample, the original tensor is passed to the compose object, the first transform is applied, then the second transform is applied.
